I just wanna do a quick show and tell
demo on, is if you haven't heard of this,
this library,
VueUse is a phenomenal library.
It is a bunch of wrappers
around basically browser API's.
So things that you might commonly
wanna do, say, I don't know,
you wanna be able to do
something with a clipboard.
This should look familiar.
It says, this is a use Clipboard
function that we can import.
And when you import it it'll actually
basically copy over whatever it is as
like a V model and whatnot,
and it just works.
And so to show you just as
a sort of show and tell on this,
something that we often wanna do when
it comes to apps is use local storage.
And if you've never
done that from scratch,
it's a pretty good API to use but
there is a bit to do as far as
manually configuring that in
addition to managing reactive state.
So one of my favorite functions is
the useStorage share with Pinia.
So if we look at Pinia
useStorage with VueUse.
Okay, here we go.
This is a blog post that
actually shows how it would work.
So basically if I scroll down here you'll
notice that inside of this to do list
you have this one line right here that
allows you to import from useStorage.
And what it does is basically
creates a local storage key, and
then every time it's being updated, when
Pinia loads, it will know VueUse's help to
check the local storage first
to see if there's new data.
If there's already existing data, it will
actually start from the local storage and
not from this initialized value.
And so what you end up getting is it's
really elegant coming together of your
VueUse functionality with your
reactive data inside of your Vue app.
And so other ones that are really fun
that you might wanna check out as well is
the color preference like color mode.
And so what you see here is that what this
is doing is that it's basically a reactive
property that allows you to easily toggle
the state of the theme of your app.
There's so much stuff in here because
basically what they've done is taken
a bunch of browser API's and
made it really easy to integrate
inside of your Vue app.
So definitely highly recommended
is one to check out.
The other final thing i wanna shout out
is is regarding transitions in Vue.
So as you know creating
good use experiences,
that's a really important part making
things easier for you just to follow.
And so we don't have time to
go into detail on this but
basically there are built in
components called transition and
transition group that help you manage how
things are being attached as they exit.
So the most common example that I'll show
right now cuz you can check out the docs,
so the one that I love
to show is the one for
transition group because this is
the one that I think we do a lot.
So if I go down into transition group.
A lot of us, render lists,
rather than have them blink in like this,
you can also have them move in
a way that's even smoother.
So you see here,
this actually allows you to shuffle stuff.
And all that is being done how?
It's being done by wrapping basically your
component inside of this transition group.
There's a little bit of
CSS that happens there.
But I'll leave you to check out
the docs to get inspiration from that.
But just know that this is built into the
library so that if you wanna try playing
around with it,
making the users easier to track things.
This is also where the keys are very
important because as you can see,
when we're doing things like shuffling
here, Vue needs to be able to know which
element it is where it needs to
go as it's moving stuff around.
So this is another bit that if you all are
developing for your apps, definitely check
out the transition group and transition
for ways to enhance user experience.